README.md, before:

# Margin Trading on top of Lenders with delegated borrowing
Contains contracts that allows users to create accounts from a factory. These accounts can then be used to interact with DEXes like UniswapV3 or lending protocols like CompoundV3 or Aave to create leveraged positions in a single click.

Users interact with a brokerage contract that builds margin positions using protocols like AAVE which implement delegated borrowing functions.

The directories in external-protocol contain contracts (everything from https://github.com/Uniswap/v3-core, everything https://github.com/Uniswap/v3-periphery, and everything from https://github.com/aave/aave-v3-core.git) that are written by third parties
- we do not claim ownership of these contracts
- we only use them for testing purposes
- we will not deploy any of the contracts belonging to these 3rd parties (uniswapV3 / AAVE)

Install dependencies with `yarn install`.

## Run hardhat tests

Compile with `npx hardhat compile`.

Run tests with `npx hardhat test test/1delta/...`.

Do not chnage compiler settings - `external-protocols` relies on exact bytecode matches.

## Run forge tests

### Install foundry

Foundry documentation can be found [here](https://book.getfoundry.sh/forge/index.html).

Open your terminal and type in the following command:

```
curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
```

This will download foundryup. Then install Foundry by running:

```
foundryup
```

### Execute tests

Tests for Mantle: `forge test --match-test "mantle" -vv`

Tests for LB: `forge test --match-test "mantle_lb" -vv`


## Swap Architecture

### Batching

We employ a direct batch function that allows chaining multiple operations. The batching is tiggered via `deltaCompose(bytes calldata data)` and the input data is a compact bytes array encoded as follows. 

| opId |op paramters| opId |op paramters| ...|
|--------|-----------|--------|------------|------|
| uint8 |bytes|uint8 |bytes|...|

The length is encoded as a `uint16` which is enough for swap path types described below.
The opertions are sequentially executed which prevents multicall usage (which saves gas due to the preventions of internal `delegatecall`s). 

#### Operations

| operation | id | parameters | param names |
|--------|--------|--------|--------|
| 0| Swap exact input | (uint256,address,uint16,bytes) | amount, receiver,pathLength, path|
| 1| Swap exact output | (uint256,address,uint16,bytes) |amount, receiver,pathLength, path|
| 3| Flash swap exact input | (uint256,address,uint16,bytes) |amount, receiver,pathLength, path|
| 0x13| Deposit | (address,address,uint8,uint112) |asset, receiver,lenderId, amount|
| 0x11| Borrow | (address,address,uint8,uint8,uint112) |asset, receiver,lenderId,mode, amount|
| 0x17| Withdraw | (address,address,uint8,uint112) |asset, receiver,lenderId, amount|
| 0x18| Repay | (address,address,uint8,uint8,uint112) |asset, receiver,lenderId, mode, amount|
| 0x15| Transfer in | (address,address,uint112) |asset, receiver, amount|
| 0x19| Wrap | (uint112) | amount|
| 0x20| Unwrap | (address,uint112) | receiver, minimumAmount|
| 0x22| Sweep | (address,address,uint112) |asset, receiver, minimumAmount|

### Path encoding

We follow the general approach of encoding actionIds, dexIds and params, sandwiched by tokens. This means, that for a route of tokens, eg.g `token0->token1->token2`, we specify the route as follows:

|token in path| action|dex|parameters|token in path|action|dex|parameters|token in path|lender|payment option|
|--------|-----------|--------|------------|--------|-----------|--------|------------|--------|----------|---------|
| token0 | actionId0 | dexId0 | paramsDex0 | token1 | actionId1 | dexId1 | paramsDex1 | token2 | lenderId | payType |
| address| uint8     | uint8  | bytes      | address| uint8     | uint8  | bytes      | address| uint8    | uint8   |

The encoding of the parameters depends on the dexId provided, i.e. for Uniswap V3 types, it is the fee parameter, for curve the parameters are the swap indexes.

### Action and pay type defininitions

The **actions** are defined as follows. The actions are only relevant for within flash swap callbacks.

|id| action|description|
|--------|-----------|--------|
| 0 | swap exact in simple  | Simple exact input swap, pay either with contract balance or from caller |
| 1 | swap exact out simple | Simple exact out swap, allows payin g through lender or via conventional transfer |
| 6 | deposit exact in | Deposits received funds, used for collateral swaps or margin open  |
| 7 | repay stable exact in | repay received funds in stable mode (if supported) |
| 8 | repay variable exact in | repay received funds in variable mode |
| 3 | deposit exact out | deposits in exact out config |
| 4 | repay stable exact out | repay received funds in stable mode   |
| 5 | repay variable exact out | repay received funds in variable mode   |

The **pay types** are defined as follows

|id| pay type|description|
|--------|-----------|--------|
| 1 | borrow stable  | borrow to pay from a lender that has stable rate borrowing |
| 2 | borrow variable | borrow  to pay with default mode (variable in most cases) |
| 3 | withdraw collateral | withdraw collateral to pay  |
| >4 | caller pays | pay from provided address (original caller or this contract)  |

### Lender id

The `lenderId` is a network-specific identifier for a lender.

### Case single route

- Direct transfers from caller to pool / pool to receiver are possible - this should make all of this compatible with FoT tokens
- Enabled for both exactIn / exactOut swaps

Caller --> pool --> pool --> receiver

### Multi route

- First, tokens are transferred from caller to contract
- Then the routes are swapped internally
- Finally, the tokens are transferred to the receiver

Caller --> | pool --> pool |
           | pool --> pool | --> receiver

- This applies for exact in & exact out

### Flash swaps

- Ideal for single route margin trades
- Allows multi-lender selection
- Gas efficient for mid-sized swaps (e.g. on uni/curve combo)

### Flash loan 

- Can wrap any sequence of actions

Commit message:

massively simplify the use of action ids for margin

README.md, after:

# Margin Trading on top of Lenders with delegated borrowing
Contains contracts that allows users to create accounts from a factory. These accounts can then be used to interact with DEXes like UniswapV3 or lending protocols like CompoundV3 or Aave to create leveraged positions in a single click.

Users interact with a brokerage contract that builds margin positions using protocols like AAVE which implement delegated borrowing functions.

The directories in external-protocol contain contracts (everything from https://github.com/Uniswap/v3-core, everything https://github.com/Uniswap/v3-periphery, and everything from https://github.com/aave/aave-v3-core.git) that are written by third parties
- we do not claim ownership of these contracts
- we only use them for testing purposes
- we will not deploy any of the contracts belonging to these 3rd parties (uniswapV3 / AAVE)

Install dependencies with `yarn install`.

## Run hardhat tests

Compile with `npx hardhat compile`.

Run tests with `npx hardhat test test/1delta/...`.

Do not chnage compiler settings - `external-protocols` relies on exact bytecode matches.

## Run forge tests

### Install foundry

Foundry documentation can be found [here](https://book.getfoundry.sh/forge/index.html).

Open your terminal and type in the following command:

```
curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
```

This will download foundryup. Then install Foundry by running:

```
foundryup
```

### Execute tests

Tests for Mantle: `forge test --match-test "mantle" -vv`

Tests for LB: `forge test --match-test "mantle_lb" -vv`


## Swap Architecture

### Batching

We employ a direct batch function that allows chaining multiple operations. The batching is tiggered via `deltaCompose(bytes calldata data)` and the input data is a compact bytes array encoded as follows. 

| opId |op paramters| opId |op paramters| ...|
|--------|-----------|--------|------------|------|
| uint8 |bytes|uint8 |bytes|...|

The length is encoded as a `uint16` which is enough for swap path types described below.
The opertions are sequentially executed which prevents multicall usage (which saves gas due to the preventions of internal `delegatecall`s). 

#### Operations

| operation | id | parameters | param names |
|--------|--------|--------|--------|
| 0| Swap exact input | (uint256,address,uint16,bytes) | amount, receiver,pathLength, path|
| 1| Swap exact output | (uint256,address,uint16,bytes) |amount, receiver,pathLength, path|
| 3| Flash swap exact input | (uint256,address,uint16,bytes) |amount, receiver,pathLength, path|
| 0x13| Deposit | (address,address,uint8,uint112) |asset, receiver,lenderId, amount|
| 0x11| Borrow | (address,address,uint8,uint8,uint112) |asset, receiver,lenderId,mode, amount|
| 0x17| Withdraw | (address,address,uint8,uint112) |asset, receiver,lenderId, amount|
| 0x18| Repay | (address,address,uint8,uint8,uint112) |asset, receiver,lenderId, mode, amount|
| 0x15| Transfer in | (address,address,uint112) |asset, receiver, amount|
| 0x19| Wrap | (uint112) | amount|
| 0x20| Unwrap | (address,uint112) | receiver, minimumAmount|
| 0x22| Sweep | (address,address,uint112) |asset, receiver, minimumAmount|

### Path encoding

We follow the general approach of encoding actionIds, dexIds and params, sandwiched by tokens. This means, that for a route of tokens, eg.g `token0->token1->token2`, we specify the route as follows:

|token in path| action|dex|parameters|token in path|action|dex|parameters|token in path|_lender_|_payment option_|
|--------|-----------|--------|------------|--------|-----------|--------|------------|--------|----------|---------|
| token0 | actionId0 | dexId0 | paramsDex0 | token1 | actionId1 | dexId1 | paramsDex1 | token2 | lenderId | payType |
| address| uint8     | uint8  | bytes      | address| uint8     | uint8  | bytes      | address| uint8    | uint8   |

The encoding of the parameters depends on the dexId provided, i.e. for Uniswap V3 types, it is the fee parameter, for curve the parameters are the swap indexes.
It is highly important to note that the payment option and lenderId must be attached, even if they are not used, otherwise, the config will default to some values that the caller might not expect.

### Action and pay type defininitions

The **actions** are defined as follows. The actions are only relevant for within flash swap callbacks.

|id| action|description|
|--------|-----------|--------|
| 0 | swap simple  | Simple exact input swap, pay either with contract balance or from caller |
| 1 | repay stable |
| 2 | repay variable  |
| 3 | deposit |

The **pay types** are defined as follows

|id| pay type|description|
|--------|-----------|--------|
| 0 | caller pays  | pay from provided address (original caller or this contract) |
| 1 | borrow stable  | borrow to pay from a lender that has stable rate borrowing |
| 2 | borrow variable | borrow  to pay with default mode (variable in most cases) |
| 3 | withdraw collateral | withdraw collateral to pay  |
| >4 | unused | so far unused, will likely be extennded for permit2  |

### Lender id

The `lenderId` is a network-specific identifier for a lender.

### Case single route

- Direct transfers from caller to pool / pool to receiver are possible - this should make all of this compatible with FoT tokens
- Enabled for both exactIn / exactOut swaps

Caller --> pool --> pool --> receiver

### Multi route

- First, tokens are transferred from caller to contract
- Then the routes are swapped internally
- Finally, the tokens are transferred to the receiver

Caller --> | pool --> pool |
           | pool --> pool | --> receiver

- This applies for exact in & exact out

### Flash swaps

- Ideal for single route margin trades
- Allows multi-lender selection
- Gas efficient for mid-sized swaps (e.g. on uni/curve combo)

### Flash loan 

- Can wrap any sequence of actions
